We're getting towards the end
of our ImageStreamGang example.
And what we're going
to here is we're
going to cover its use of
arbitrary-arity methods.
And some of this will
look quite familiar
because it's really
quite the same as what
we had done for our earlier
examples with the image
counter, web crawler, and
the earlier descriptions we
did of futures collector.
So basically,
here's the context.
flatMap's going to
end up returning
this stream of
completable futures
that are associated
with processing that's
all running asynchronously.
And we'd like to be
able to consolidate
all that into a single
completable future
to wait reactively for it.
And the way we're going to do
that is we're going to call
collect passing in the result of
the two future factory method.
And that will end up giving
us just one completable future
to handle, not hundreds, or
dozens, or however many things
we're trying to download.
As always, when
collect is hit, that
triggers everything
else to start so.
So none of the things
we've talked about thus far
actually begin until
collect is hit.
No surprise there.
And it will then go
ahead and give us back
a single completable future.
And that single
completable future
is produced by a
collector called
StreamOfFuturesCollector.
And we're going to talk
about that just in a second.
And that stream of
futures collector
will wrap the
arbitrary-arity allOf method.
Kind of a mouthful, but
hopefully, at this point,
it's becoming more
intuitive to you.
When that single
completable future triggers,
we're just going
to log the results,
just to do something at the
end, using the thenApply method.
And you can see here, what
we're going to do with Java 9,
if we're running this code on
the Java 9 version of the JDK
or above, we can use
a really cool feature
in the stream.flatMap
method, which now works with
optional::stream.
And what that does is
that gets rid of all
the empty optional values.
Because we could
have had a number
of empty optionals in this
stream because we were ignoring
cached images.
If we're stuck with
Java 8, which sadly
would be the case if
we were programming
with current
versions of Android--
I don't think this will
change anytime soon.
But if you're using versions
of Android that support Java 8
only, then we have to do
something a little bit more
crufty.
So rather than doing this
really cool, simple code,
instead, we have to
say stream.filter,
get rid of things
that are not present.
Get rid of empty elements, and
then map(Optional::get) to get
the result. So that's
just a bit more verbose.
This is a little cleaner.
But if you're using Android,
you're stuck with this code.
If you're using other versions
that support Java 9 and above,
you can go with a clean code.
For my money, the Java 8
version is a lot more verbose
and not as desirable.
In fact, you can see
how verbose it is.
I actually said it was verbose
multiple times in the slide.
So it's really verbose.
The final thing we
do here is we wait
until all the asynchronous
processing is completed
by using the join call,
which will block until all
of those asynchronous
computations finish, which
could actually
take a bit of time.
This is the one and only call to
join in the entire async stream
pipeline.
And that's reassuring.
It's good to know that, because
that's exactly what we want.
There really should
only be one call.
We don't want to be doing
this more than once.
That'll just slow things
down unnecessarily.
After everything
finishes, then we
can go ahead and
display the images.
If we're running on Android,
we can pop up a nice browser
to browse the images
and have a good time.